Use Case: Create Scene.
scope: primary volunteer scheduling application
level: user goal
Primary Actor: producer
Stakeholders: 
 Producer – wishes to store scenes in the script and be able to access them in an  organized way. 
 Volunteer - Performs the work necessary to film a scene.
 Equipment - The equipment used by the volunteers and producer in filing the scene.
Preconditions: 
The producer has created a script and is looking at the main menu. 
The producer wishes to create a new, unique scene.
 		
Postconditions(success guarantee): 
The scene is saved to the script. 
The scheduling system is notified of the addition.

Summary: 
The producer wishes to add a scene to the script, and has all of the necessary volunteers and equipment added. The producer switches to the Script tab, clicks on the add a scene button, enters the scene information, and saves it to the script.


Main Success Scenario:
1. The producer is looking at, or switches to the script tab.
2. The producer clicks the add a scene button.
3. The producer enters the name of the scene. 
4. The producer then highlights/ selects a volunteer to add.
5. The producer then clicks the add volunteer to scene button.
6. The volunteer is added to the scene.
7. Repeat from step 4 until all necessary volunteers are inserted into the scene.
8. The producer highlights/ selects a piece of equipment to add to the scene.
9. The producer clicks the add equipment button.
10. The equipment is added to the scene.
11. Repeat from step 7 until all necessary equipment has been added to the scene.
12. The producer presses the save scene button.
13. The scene is added to the script.
Extensions:
1.a. The script is not within the system yet:
	1. The producer is presented with a dialogue on starting the system asking them to enter a name for the script
	2. The producer enters the name of the script in the dialogue.
	3.a. The producer clicks 'Okay'
		1.a. The name the user added is empty
			1. The system presents an error dialogue, explaining that the script name is a required field.
		1.b The name the user added is valid.
			1. The script is added to the system
3b - At any point during the creation of the scene, the producer can choose not to add the scene to the script. 
	1. The producer presses the cancel button.
	2. The producer is returned to the main menu.
7b. The producer wishes to remove a volunteer, that he or she has just added, from the scene.
	1. The producer highlights the volunteer he or she wishes to remove.
	2. The producer clicks the remove volunteer button.
	3. Repeat step one until the producer has removed all unwanted volunteers.
11b. The producer wishes to remove a piece of equipment, that he or she just added, from the scene.
	1. The producer selects/highlights the equipment he or she wishes to remove.
	2. The producer clicks the remove volunteer button.
	3. Repeat from step one until the producer has removed all unwanted equipment from the scene.
	

 Frequency of occurrence: 
 Several times when the script is new, sparse usage afterwards. 
