Use Case Name: Producer Adds Scene To Schedule 
Scope: Primary Volunteer Scheduling Application
Primary Actor: Producer
Stakeholders and Interests: 
- Producer: Wants to be able to schedule to scene to be shot in an appropriate time for all their volunteers. They want access to all the information on when the scene can be shot, fitting around the limited availabilities of the volunteers and equipment which the scene requires. The resposibility of the producer is to ensure that the film is fully shot in as short a time period as possible, so having access to information and feedback on the times which scenes can be shot is imperative.
- Volunteer: Wants to be involved in the filming process at times that suit them. Is invested in the success of the film and as such wishes to see the film completed. Is giving over their own free time, so wishes to see the film completed in a short a window of time as possible, so as not to have the film unduly interfere with their daily lives.
- Film Company: Outside of the producer and the volunteers there are also a number of people involved in the creation of the film (writers, executive producers etc.), who might not be listed specifically as volunteers for the purpose of the system, but are still heavily invested in the success of the film.
Preconditions:
- The script which the scene belongs to has been created
- The scene the producer wishes to schedule has been created and added to the script
- The scene has not already been shot
Postconditions:
- The script is added to the schedule at the time specified
- The producer is provided with feedback regarding whether or not the scene can be filmed at this date, given the availabilities of the volunteers and equipment it contains
Summary: The Producer wishes to schedule the date and time which a scene will be filmed. The Producer switches to the 'Scheduling' tab, which displays a list of all the scenes, plus a monthly calendar view centred on the current month, which displays the current shooting schedule. The Producer then Right-Clicks the appropriate date on the calendar and selects 'Schedule Scene' from the context menu which appears. This will open a small dialog window, defaulting to the date which was under focus when the Producer Right-Clicked. The Producer can then select a Scene from a list, and alter the date-time when it will be shot. The Producer can then click 'Okay' which will add the scene to that date in the schedule, or 'Cancel' to back out of the operation. After the scene is added to the schedule, the schedule is then validated to ensure that no conflicts of availability have arisen from the change in the schedule.
Main Success Scenario:
1. The producer starts the system
2. The producer clicks on the 'Scheduling' tab
3. The producer right-click on the date they wish to schedule the scene
4. The dialog window for adding a scene to the schedule appears, with the date defaulted to the date on which the producer right-clicked
5. The producer selects the scene they wish to schedule
6. The producer clicks the 'Okay' button in order to add the scene to the schedule
7. The scene is added to the schedule on the date the producer originally right-clicked on. 
Extensions:
1.a. The script is not within the system yet:
	1. The producer is presented with a dialog on starting the system asking them to enter a name for the script
	2. The producer enters the name of the script in the dialog
	3.a. The producer clicks 'Okay'
		1.a. The name the user added is empty
			1. The system presents an error dialog, explaining that the script name is a required field.
		1.b The name the user added is valid.
			1. The script is added to the system
	3.b. The producer clicks 'Cancel'
		1. The system presents a dialog informing the user that a script is required
		2. The system closes
4.a. The producer wishes to schedule the scene for a data different to the date on which they initially right clicked
	1. The producer selects a different date from the date control
5.a. The scene the producer wishes to schedule is not in the system yet
	1. The producer cancels the operation and proceeds to the script tab in order to add the scrip they wish to schedule
5.b. The scene the producer wishes to schedule cannot be filmed with its current requirements on the selected date
	1. The producer is presented with a warning indicating that the scene cannot be shot on this date, however they are still able to add the scene to this date in the schedule
	2.a. The producer adds the scene to the schedule on this date anyway
		1. The scene is added to the schedule, but with a visual warning that its current state means it cannot be shot
	2.b. The producer selects a different date to schedule the scene to be filmed
5.c. The date chosen is earlier than the current date-time:
	1. The scene schedule is placed in an invalid state with a relevant warning message: "Scheduled date of filming is before today"
	2. The warning message is displayed to the producer
7.b. The producer selected a different date from that the one which they initially right-clicked on
	1. The scene is added to the date which the producer selected in the date control
7. The producer selected a date which placed the scene schedule in an invalid state (earlier than current date-time)
	1. A warning dialog is presented to the producer indicating that the scene schedule cannot be saved because of an invalid state including the error message associated with the scene schedule.
			
Special Requirements:
- Must be error tolerant to losses in database communication
 
Frequency of Occurance: Initially occurs often within the creation of the initial schedule. Will happen less later, only when some major change in circumstance (a volunteer/equipment availability change that renders the schedule not workable).



Use Case: Create and add a scene to the script.
scope: primary volunteer scheduling application
level: user goal
Primary Actor: producer
Stakeholders: 
 Producer – wishes to store scenes in the script and be able to access them in an  organized way. 

Preconditions: The producer has created a script and is looking at the script menu.
 		The script has been created. 
 		
Postconditions(success guarantee): The scene is saved to the script
 				      The scheduling system is notified of the addition.
Exceptions: 
-A scene does not contain any requirements. 

Main Success Scenario:
1. Producer clicks on the add a scene button.
2. Producer enters scene information and clicks ok.
3. The scene information is added to the script.
4. The scheduling system is notified of the addition.
5. The producer is returned to the previous menu.

Extensions:
2a. The scene information is invalid.
     1.The system displays the error message to the producer.
     2.The producer clicks ok and is redirected to the create and add a scene menu.

2b. The producer does not wish to save the scene.
     1. The producer clicks cancel.
     2. The producer is returned to the previous menu.

3a. A scene with that name is already in the script.
     1. The producer is presented with both copies.
      2.The user responds to the error.
 	 1. The producer wishes to overwrite the scene and clicks overwrite.
 	2a. The scene in the database is already completed.
 		1. The producer is notified of the previous scenes completion.
  			1a. The producer wishes to overwrite anyway and presses overwrite.
 				2. The old scene info is overwritten with the new scene info.
 				3. The scheduler is notified of the change.
 			1b. The producer does not wish to overwrite and clicks cancel.
 				1. The producer is returned to the create and add scene menu.
 	2b.  The scene in the database is not complete.
 		1. The old scene information is overwritten with the new scene information.
 		2. The producer is returned to the previous menu.


 Frequency of occurrence: Continuous at the beginning, sparse during production.

Use Case: Producer add requirement to a scene.
 	- The word requirement will refer to either a volunteer or piece of equipment.
Scope: Primary volunteer scheduling application
Primary Actor: Producer
Stakeholder:
 	Producer- wants a way of storing scene requirements. 

precondition: Producer is creating or editing a scene.
Postcondition(success guarantee): The volunteer/equipment is added to the scene.

Exceptions: 
-The added volunteers and equipment have no time availability. 

Main Success Scenario:	
1. The producer clicks the add requirement button.
2. The producer enters the volunteer/equipment information.
3. The producer clicks ok.
4. The requirement is saved to the scene.
5. The scheduler is notified of a change.

Extensions:
2a. The producer does not wish to add the requirement.
 	1. The producer clicks cancel.
	2. The producer is returned to the previous screen.
3a. The requirement information is invalid.
 	1. The producer is notified of the error.
 	2. The producer is sent back to the add a requirement menu. 

Frequency of occurrence: Several times for every scene that is created



Use Case Name: Resolving Schedule Conflicts
The producer has a conflict, after trying to schedule a scene, So they're brought to another window which has various options for resolving the conflict. Ignore means that the scene will be scheduled anyway, and the producer will be prompted to confirm this. The other basic option will be to contact all those involved in the scene through e-mail.


Scope: Volunteer Film schedule manager
Level: User-goal
Primary Actor: Producer
Stakeholders and Interests:
-Producer: Wants to view all of the information regarding a schedule conflict: The Volunteers and equipment involved, and their respective availabilities, and the reason for the conflict
-Volunteers: Have accurate representation of their availability  	
-Director: Ensure the system allows the producer makes accurate scheduling decisions.
Preconditions: A conflict in the schedule has been identified and associated with a scene

Exceptions: 
There is no conflict in the system

Main Success Scenario
1. The producer identifies a conflict and clicks on the conflict resolution button from the schedule
2. A new window comes up that describes the nature of the conflict
3. The producer makes a decision regarding the conflict
4. The resolution is executed
5. The producer is returned to the schedule
Extensions


Frequency of occurrence: Relatively often, as the likelihood of a conflict is high. 


Use Case: New volunteerPrimary actor: volunteerStakeholders and Interests: 	Volunteer: wants to be able to give their information and availability	Producer: wants to be able to view and use the information provided	Other volunteers: want the volunteer to be in the system Preconditions: Volunteer is identified and asked to fill out formPostconditions: Volunteer has entered all information correctly. Volunteer’s information is saved in the database. Volunteer has a way to access and modify their data. Producer is able to log in and view availability. Volunteer’s information is automatically integrated into scheduling process.Main success scenario:1.	Customer turns on the computer2.	Customer enters their basic information.3.	Customer enters their availability4.	Customer clicks on the OK button 5.	The customer’s information is updated in the database.6.	System processes the data.Extensions:a: Volunteer does not put information in all of the boxes:1.	Error message pops up2.	Volunteer appropriately fills out missed field3.	Volunteer clicks on the OK button4.	System proceeds as normalb: At any time if the system fails:1.	Do a system reboot2.	Volunteer proceeds to fill out information as normal.note* there is not enough information required to back it up while filling out the formc: Human decides not to volunteer  any longer:1.	Human presses cancel.2.	System ignores any information previously entered.Special requirements:	Access to a computer with the program on it.Technology and Data Variations List:	Producer may delete any volunteer account.Frequency of Occurrence: used N times where N is the number of volunteers.Open Issues:	Data recovery on crash.	Should different types of volunteers enter different data?	Help if the volunteer does not understand something about the forms.version: oct 21 2014

