Movie Scheduler
by Achieveatron Unlimited


Product Description

Our company, Achievatron Unlimited, will create a piece of software designed to assist the Producer of a small-scale film production company. These companies rely heavily on volunteer cast or crew members as well as volunteered equipment in order to film the scenes. Producers of such companies are expected to efficiently schedule filming around the time constraints of the available volunteers and equipment in order to produce the film in the shortest amount of time possible.  Our software aims to make the producer’s job easier by keeping records of all cast/crew members and equipment as well as the times they are available, the scenes which are required for the movie (both completed and yet to be shot), and what each scene requires. This will save the producer time by allowing him or her to easily create a schedule, or even automatically generate an appropriate schedule given all of the time constraints. 

Business Case

A significant amount of the responsibility for the organisation of a movie project falls to the producer, once a shooting begins. It is up to them to decide when each scene should be shot, keep track of progress on the film, inform the required cast and crew of when they will be required, ensure that all the necessary equipment (lighting, cameras, microphones, generators) is present for any given scene, and keep everything flowing on any given day of filming. This workload is increased significantly when producing a movie which is reliant of volunteers or volunteered equipment and has, to some extent, to work itself around their schedules. 

In order to ease the complexity of this task of orginaization our firm will design and build a piece of software which will assist in the collection of all the information needed to build a shooting itinerary for an entire movie project, including the scenes to be shot, the volunteers who will form the cast and crew, the equipment needed to be shot and the volunteer/equipment requirements of the scenes. With this information the producer will have a visual and automatic means of bringing together this information into a workable itinerary. The system will also facilitiate communication between the producer and the volunteers by allowing the emailing of all relevant parties required for given scenes (in the case, for instance, of an unworkable itinerary), and will feature a web applet that will allow the volunteers to update their information from across the web, should their availability or contact info change.

User Level Goals


User Scenarios


In our project we have identified one major use case and one minor use case. The primary users will be one or more producers who's primary uses of the software will be to organize scheduling and resolving conflicts involving volunteers/equipment. The secondary use of the software will be for volunteers to easily edit contact info and availability to resolve conflicts.

Use Case: Enter new volunteer/equipment information
Actors: Producers
Goal: To enter new information into the database regarding volunteer availabilities
Activity: A producer receives a form with the volunteer's skills as they relate to the film, their availability and contact information. They then are able to quickly enter it in large quantities. 
Quality: Must be efficient, and accurate

Use Case: Enter new equipment information
Actors: Producers
Goal: TO enter new equipment information into the database
Activity:The producer receives equipment rental information time availability, and they enter the attributes and times for the equipment. Should be efficient
Quality: Efficient and accurate

Use Case: Enter/Edit scene requirements 
Actors: Producers
Goal: Create and edit what each scene needs.
Activity: Allow the producers to check off what type of people and equipment is needed for a particular scene, so that a schedule can be generated. It should also allow the editing of requirements.
Quality: Efficient and simple

Use Case: Edit/Update Information
Actors: Producers/Volunteers
Goal: Edit information of the volunteer/equipment information
Activity: Allow the editing of volunteer/equipment availbility by the producer or the Volunteers through the web service
Quality: Reliable, simple, and consistent

Use Case: View Schedule
Actors: Producers
Goal: Examine the current schedule
Activity: Once the volunteer availability and scene requirements are input, allow the producer to have an 'at a glance' view of the schedule.
Quality: Must 100% correct, concise as possible and reliable.

Use Case: Export schedule
Actors: Producers 
Goal: Get a file containing the schedule
Activity: Allow the producer to export the schedule data into a xls, or similar format that would allow printing the schedule.
Quality: Must be easily human readable.

Use Case: Conflict resolution
Actors: Producers
Goal: Resolve conflicts in the schedule
Activity: Allow the producers to view conflicts, and make decisions, such as to send everyone involved emails, or to generate a list of their phone numbers.
Quality:  Reliable and simple (For the user)





Project Scope


Project Plan and Time Estimates


User Involvement Plan
Dead Prairies Productions is a movie company located in Swiftcurrent, SK who one of our group members worked with a few summers ago. A volunteer producer and various cast/crew members from this production group have  agreed to help test our Movie Scheduler product. This will occur over three phases during the development of the project.

 
Phase 1: Prototype

This phase involves testing the usability and flow of a basic GUI with the prototype movie scheduler. The producer and a few cast or crew members will test out the prototype. The main benefit of this phase is that the volunteers will be able to offer suggestions towards the look and feel of the interface. This feedback will will aid in improving overall user experience as we continue to develop our product.
Users: 1 Producer, 2-3 cast / crew members
Time required: 15-30 minutes.
Date: Early October upon completion of a prototype with basic functionality.
 
Phase 2: Implementation

This phase involves users testing some major features of the project during the implementation. The Producer and various cast/crew will be asked to use the movie scheduler and cast/crew availability interfaces. This will allow us to catch any major issues that we may have overlooked during the early phases of our development.
Users: 1 Producer, 5-6 cast / crew members
Time required: 30-60 minutes for the producer, 15-30 minutes for each cast/crew member
Date: Early - Mid November, upon completion of some major features before actual realization and   deployment of our product. 
 
Phase 3: Finished Product

This phase involves a trial run - Dead Prairie Productions has agreed to use our Movie Scheduler for a short film. This will allow us to evaluate the product before the development process is over, as we will work with users to fine-tune the product - with the user input we can make slight tweaks to the interface to improve the overall flow and feel of the program.   
Users: 1 Producer, a number of cast / crew.
Time required: The length of the filming of a short film (3-14 days). 
Date: Late November - Early December, before deployment of our product. 


Low-Fi Prototypes


Project Management Report


Project Plan
